So, Thomas, I'm really happy to welcome you this evening here to tell us a few of your
stories from your time in Sahaja Yoga. When did you join? What year did you get your realization?
79, I met, it was not the first time I came across Sahaja Yoga, but just let me briefly
say about this video which we saw just now. It's worth really to spread because I think
it's not so much known how she might have just shown this exercise. And I just want
to use it sometimes briefly just lowering the head like this, breathing in, putting
the attention on sasara and then breathing out when this light comes into sasara. And
it's really a nice way to be easily thoughtless. Anyway, yeah, it was 78 actually that I met
one Mr. Rustam Borjorje who is known for being one of the prominent yogis in that time. He
was an Indian from a well-off family who studied psychritory and he was a doctor, a psychiatrist
in London. And somehow he was, had a contact to a German psychologist in my study place
which is Freiburg and Breisgau near Basel, near Switzerland and French border. So he
got the chance from this lady to use her practice for learning to get some money also from,
I don't know what was the reason, but actually he took some patients from her. And as I studied
social work, it was quite normal that people would do some kind of psychological treatment
or whatever it is. And one of my friends in study, my best friends in that time, he went
to this lady and met Mr. Rustam Borjorje. When he came back next day in our university,
he told me about this incident that Rustam told about, Sahaja Yoga. And he tried to give
realization also to him, which he did not feel as such, but he told me about it. And
especially he said that this TM business, which I practiced for some years also like
many other in England, many other yogis, that this TM is very bad. And I was just on the
cusp to leave it because I felt like in a glass house and I didn't go in the deeper,
fortunately in the deeper areas of this so-called transcendental meditation. And so somehow
this struck me that he said this is a very negative thing. And so I made an appointment
with Rustam Borjorje. And when I came, I felt when he opened the door, I felt a tremendous
power in his personality. I would not say I felt vibrations, but it was some authority
I felt from him also because he was a person like this to emit this authority. And so he
tried to work on me and I did not feel cool and I did not have extreme strong experience.
It was more hot, I remember. He gave me some lemons in the end and said, you should, you
worked with the lemons on me. He said, you should dump it in the next river, which I
did. And also he told me you can meditate also in the church in Freiburg, which has
a beautiful Madonna, which gives vibrations. I did so. And also he gave me the little black
and white, this big picture of Shri Mataji. Well, and then time passed and then in the
next year, Gregoire and Gregoire had visited Rustam. Gregoire was in Switzerland, it was
not so far. So he visited Rustam in this, in my place. And I met Gregoire also. And
so everything came into place. And then next year Rustam phoned me and said, you can come
to England to meet Shri Mataji. Well, I did so. I booked a flight. At that time already
there was very cheap flights. I was a cool student. And when I came, I slept in the airport,
in the lawn outside of the airport because the plane came rather late. Next year, I went
to Dollis Hills, which was in north, northeast, northwest London. A typical attached raw house
with, which was one of the first ashrams in London at that time. So when I arrived, there
was hardly anybody there, but somebody told me Shri Mataji is not here. I don't know how
I could not check that before, but it was just a fact Shri Mataji was not here. And
they said she is apparently in the north of England. Well, everybody knew where and
what. And as I always wanted to go to Scotland, I hitchhiked to Scotland with my army sleeping
back. And then I ended up in this so-called loch, loch is the lake in Scotland, they call
loch. And it's a place, a small little lake in the highlands north of Edinburgh with a
youth hostel. So I spent two days in this youth hostel and I felt very pleasant, I must
say. I remember I was trying to paint something of the landscape, walking around. And next
day, I drove with a little highland train back to Edinburgh. And the next stop was Loch
Renoch. And Loch Renoch, which I found out two years later, Loch Renoch was exactly the
place where Shri Mataji held a seminar in the hotel, which was the hotel where Peter
Pierce and Linda Pierce, who were somehow heads of the M movement in Scotland, they
have held seminars there. And Shri Mataji somehow wanted to work out this place. And
so it struck me really that in this huge highland, I was coming with a train on that station,
stopping at the station without knowing I was about one kilometer from Shri Mataji.
It is just one of these miracles. And so I didn't meet her.
Sorry, Thomas, that was while Shrimachi was there, exactly at the same time?
Yes, of course. Yeah. When she did the seminar with some yogis, that was what people in
London meant when they said she's in North England.
Wow.
So that was just amazing, if I look back. So I came back without my so-called mission
accomplished, went back to Germany. That was summer, yeah? It was summer because I was
sometimes sleeping outside. I was not really a hippie, but of course, I was in that time.
I was about 25 or so. Anyway, so in the winter, in December, I flew again and Ustom had told
me there would be a Buddha, which I didn't know what it was. But I went again, came back,
came to Dulles Hills and the preparation was going on for this famous guru,
Pudya Vaisvimadaji, declared, I am the one who came to save the humanity. I am the Adi Shakti,
the power of God. You know the whole speech, which is so amazing, where it actually the
first time declared herself. And well, I was present in that without my, I was not a
without having my realization from her. Having the whole pudya, I mean, everything I went
through, I bowed, I got the book also in the end from Gregoire, the advent arrived in these
days. The Adi Shakti gave a signature. And at the end of the whole thing, we were, I was
sitting with three others in a row and before Shri Mataji and I was introduced like a
musical and what, and she was working on some man next to me and I was closing my eyes and
so I was sitting, sitting, of course, waiting. And so in one moment, Shri Mataji said,
so open your eyes and how are you? And I said, I am not a man. I am a woman.
And she said, close your eyes. And suddenly there was this movement inside me to my heart.
All the, I mean, pain, what you want to say of life or the tragedy. I mean, I was not
especially, I didn't have a tragic life, but as many seekers, we went through some issues.
I don't know. It was just coming out. Maybe it was just the joy of the spirit to feel that
complete relief, but it was like pouring out of me. And then one moment she said, now it's
coming up now. Laugh it out. And in that moment, it was like a rocket. It was a huge
universe opening. It was just so amazing, beautiful. And I had to laugh really. And I
mean, this thoughtlessness and this stage lingered on not in the same way, but it
lingered on for, for the next days. And even in the ashram in the night, I woke up and
was completely bathed in bliss. And then Shri Mataji was going after the whole ceremony
and English people were singing in the same way. And I was just, I was just, I was
singing Christmas carols, which was so beautiful. And later in my life, I always was
singing with my children, these, these English carols. And she said, oh, there's a bit
left, they are a bit left sided because Jesus was in the cradle. So they are a bit like
that, but she liked them quite a lot, especially, especially away in the manger. She
liked quite a lot. And when she walked out of the room, wisdom was beside me and said,
said, bow down to her. You will not have the chance so often. So I saw what people did.
I didn't know that one can do it actually. So I was bowing down on the earth and Shri
Mataji passed by and said, stopped and said, get up. And how are you now? And I said, oh,
I'm fine, but it's not like before. And then she asked me, did you have a guru? I said,
yeah, this is this TM stuff I did for, but not so long. But then she said, yeah, it's
very bad. And you should say, mother, you're my guru. So I put my hands and I said,
are you my guru? And then, woof, again, it was raising tremendously. And I, I was
like, this was a start, which was just so amazing. I think Shri Mataji could do it.
She could, I mean, decide to give it. I don't know. But as it is, I coming home in my,
to my studies and with the friends and trying to talk about it, it was as usual talking
about the taste of a mango to, to, to somebody who never had a mango before. It's,
it's just impossible to describe also the frustration, I must say. And so this was my
start. And later on in that place, Shri Mataji came, Shri Mataji came to that place
later, but it was not easy to, to have two, three yogis to work with them. Mostly
they were funny people also. And, but I tried. And so, so
Should I share this photograph of Shumashi when Shumashi came to,
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, I can show that.
Is four photographs, which I've, yeah, this is, this is it. So I don't know exactly
the ones from the program, which program that was. I think it may have been in
Zurich, but the one below, right below is in Bonn. Bonn was my hometown where I went
to school and Gregor had sent me, I think 81, was it 80 or 81, had sent me a letter
that Shumashi is doing a tour from Geneva, Lausanne, Zurich, Bern, Basel in Switzerland.
And why don't you organize something in Freiburg and whatever. So I organized the
first programs in Germany in Freiburg, exactly in the university where I was, the
Audimax. And the second was in Bonn. So compared to German-Swiss, it was not so
bad received in Freiburg. And so Catherine came with Shumashi, Gregor's wife,
two others. One lady is seen in the pictures. She was Laurent's auntie, I think,
and Laurent also who was there since some month who came. And after this first
program in Freiburg, we drove together with the train to Bonn. So as it was, we
arrived in Bonn and we worked by feet towards the inner town, which is a very
close walk. And this was like a full diving into my past because first we passed
the shop, the toy shop, big toy shop of one of my classmates' father. She went
in there and then we went on and she must have asked that he can eat or what.
Or I said we can go to Kauf. Kauf is one of these big department stores where
actually my father was the head of the restaurants all over the place. It was a
department store in all of the big cities of Germany. So I was used to go to this
place where my father worked and it was a special moment, of course, that we went
to this restaurant. And as you can see in this photo, Shumashi had an ice cream
after the main course. And it was also somehow the moment where this personal
report was so relaxed. For example, I remember we walked on the street towards
this place, towards this department store, and she said something and I replied,
aha. And she said, ah, in India we say acha, like confirming something. And like
these little, little things. So in this department store she also bought a toy
and she was trained for her grandson, I think. And the program was organized by
an old friend of mine because I was not there. And actually the hotel also. The
hotel was a disaster because it was so simple because I didn't know anything
about the prestige and the worldly situation of Shumaji as a diplomat's wife
and all this I didn't know and also I didn't have the money as a student to
invest or I didn't know what to do. Actually I feel very shameful. And in that
place, I think after the program, we wanted to eat something and there was a
vina vale downstairs. A vina vale was a chain for chicken, like Kentucky fried
chicken, but in that time it was vina vale. And we brought the chicken up in her
room in the paper, in this aluminum foil paper. We opened it when we all ate
chicken, three of us or so. It was just one of these stories which many of you
may know going to McDonald's or whatever it is. And on top of that there was no
soap in the bathroom. And she mentioned that and one year later I went in the
room, in her room in Lausanne in Switzerland and I had bought a soap for her
and I went in the room and out the door and she said, yeah, come in. And I said,
Shumaji, I'm sorry for this hotel and I bought soap for you. And so she took
out from her purse this green Chandrika soap, which you might know, Indian soap,
Ayurvedic soap, and she let me smell that. And I remember it was opening the
vishuddhi. It was such a feeling. And I can say, and she said good smells open
the vishuddhi. So I just know after that it was very difficult for me to smell
artificial smells. I cannot. I mean, all these lush and artificial smells or
incense which are so bad, I cannot bear it. But on the other side, good smells
really open the vishuddhi. So that was the story of the first meeting in Germany.
And you saw also on these pictures, on the upper picture, you saw the farewell
photo on the airport in Dusseldorf. And I with my leather jacket and Shumaji's
big smile. And I remember I was in heaven. I mean, it was just amazing to
to pay farewell to her. Like in many, many situations in the world, it's very
special. It was a very special moment. And she gave so much love in that moment.
Yeah, that was the first picture. Yeah, so to say. That was my humble
beginnings. And these experiences, the first experiences kept me going on.
And I mean, many of us know that we go to hills and valleys. Sometimes there's
valleys in life. But then you remember those deep moments and you keep on
going because you know it was real. It was so real, more real than anything
else. And then you keep going. And I kept going for the last now 40, I don't
know, 44 years or so. And it's still that I feel that there's something to
grow. And I feel it's beautiful, especially when I'm here in Capella now.
There's nothing better than deep meditation. That's why whoever listens to
me here, to my humble words, I can only say keep going, keep going and seek
always the deepest moment. Don't give up and somehow keep up the search, the
intensity of our search. This is so important. And then we develop slowly,
slowly, sometimes without feeling even. Yeah.
But certainly one of the things that helps us to keep going in our sahaja
journey are the miracles. No? And you have, I think, so I'd like to ask you
what miracles mean to you. Should I start by showing the picture then of
Hanumanar, of Shri Mataji's Hanumanar? Yeah, please. Yeah, this is something
amazing here. Actually I can say that I was not very fond of miracle photos,
which I took a lot of photos in the past, so I knew what photos can, how
photos can trick you. So many vibrations like flickering lights can be easily
done by long exposures as we know. But Shri Mataji still used them and it's
not up to me to judge that. But as I was always doubting Thomas in the sense
that I stick only to that what I really feel and know and see and feel. And so
in Shvetsingen near Frankfurt in an old castle you had this Hanumanar puja,
which was so beautiful. It was just an amazing talk which you might know,
you must know because it's talking about the whole Ramayana and it's just
very beautiful. And before the puja we went to the market and Ian and me went
to the market, Ian, Paradigm and me, and we wanted to buy some flowers and
fruit and whatever for the puja. So I said why don't we take herbs with us
because there's this story that Hanuman was flying to rescue the brother
of Rama who was near to die and there was only one this Sanjeevani grass which
was growing in some mountains and Hanuman brought the whole mountain because
he could not make out this grass. So then we bought a lot of herbs,
the big bush and in the end of the puja I brought this bush in front of her,
Ian and me went to her and she was very enthusiastic, took the whole bush,
took each one of those, smelled it and on the mic commanded how, for what
it is and how good it is and also how it is used in Ayurveda. It was a
beautiful moment for me myself. Then before that there was this picture
which you just showed and I was sitting on the side of the stage and I had
my little camera and took this picture and actually I did not see what I did
in that moment and what my camera did or what Shri Mataji did, let's say.
When it came out, when I exposed the picture because at that time there was
only analog films, I was just what? It was amazing because you can see
Hanuman face in her so clearly, so clearly that it's just stunning and when
I came to Kavella next time, somehow there was a meeting and I showed it
to Shri Mataji and the others and was going around, they were all so amazed
by this photo. Actually I lost the negative and I made a photo from a photo
which is in the castle somehow. So, yeah, this was my personal miracle
and it was a teaching that doubting may be okay but then you get your own
miracle just like this doubting Thomas knew he had to put the finger in
Christ's wound when he appeared after appearing for the, after his death
appearing before the disciples, he was asked to put the fingers to prove
that it's really real Christ. So, like this, I mean, this had maybe I was
doubting Thomas. Sorry, what year was that puja again, Thomas?
About? The 90s, early 90s. Right. But there are not many Hanuman pujas,
it's called Hanuman puja in Germany, Schwezingen. Schwezingen is this place
near Frankfurt and you can easily find it out. And then there's, I have,
next on my list is the picture of Rahuri. Yeah, I sent you some pictures
which, where I can easily think of the situation.
Yeah, let me just share with them. That was the first India tour,
I went, first India tour where I went, it was 84, 85. Yeah, this is it.
This has a special history and a special significance for me also.
I mean, there's so much to say, I mean, this Rahuri was a farm of Dumal.
Dumal had given realizations to 10,000. He was a fantastic man and
unfortunately he died very early somehow. And he was a sugar cane farmer
and we went to this farm. And as you can see, it's a very rural area,
a little bit you can see it on the house. And she might as well be wearing
this simple cotton saree. And we were sitting in rows before her
with our banana leaves on the ground and eating. So I was sitting a little
bit behind and I saw her sitting there and I was just amazed by her beauty
and the whole setting. And I went with my little camera, very shy,
and with a gesture I asked if I can make a photo. And I made this photo
and she gave me that smile, which is so much personal because she gave it
to me in a way. But it also for me, it expresses, I don't know how you feel
about it, it expresses a big amount of compassion. It's not only a smile,
it's saying don't worry, don't worry, be happy. Don't have a lefty,
shouldy, everything will be okay. And yeah, later on you see, it's funny,
can you see on top of Shrimadaji's head there are three lines. Actually
they are the covers of the house, a tree and the frame of the door.
And sometimes I was wondering, see you have the dark which is the left side
and the middle, the golden color and the red color is supposed to be the
right side. And I was wondering does Shrimadaji at all have a right side
or is everything on the left side, on the Idanadi, what is left side?
Idanadi, yeah, the right is Pingala.
Yeah, so is everything on the left side, everything is in her desire as
she's Shakti, she desires and then it's carried out automatically.
Can it be that she doesn't have any right side?
Maybe somebody who sees that can respond to that. It was just a theory
which once came to me when I saw the picture. But the story is not ending
because I gave away somehow the negative and when you gave away the negative
that's it, you lost the photo or even the photo I lost somewhere or gave to
somebody. And also some years later, Ian suddenly gave me a present of
exactly this picture in a frame and I said, what? From where you have this?
And he said, oh, it's from London and it's very popular in England.
I was just flabbergasted because I mean I lost it and so it was coming back
to me and this is a picture from a picture so the quality also is not so
very good. But yeah, this was the picture which is so much a miracle to me.
I mean when I talk about miracles, I don't expect stars falling from heaven
or comets coming to the earth, though I faced once a comet really,
which was interesting. But anyway, these personal stories, they mean so much
to me and miracles are going on here also, especially in Kabela, every second day.
You think something, you desire something and it happens. It's never ending,
but somehow this word miracle loses really its meaning because it's somehow
you're connected, things just happen. But okay, what was the next picture I sent?
So the next picture was Krishna, let me just line it up so I can share it.
This is Yuna in front of a poster.
Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Funny situation. You see Rajiv Gandhi, that was the election
of Rajiv Gandhi and posters were all around. And if you look at it and my face,
you will see amazing similarity.
It's true.
Especially if you see the upper part, though I was not so plumb in the face like him
at that time. Maybe I would resemble him more now, but the children in the street
or people were giggling Rajiv, Rajiv, they could see that.
And there was the puja before and the puja was in Nasik in the house of Dr. Sangwe,
I think you might find it also if you search for the video, Krishna puja 84, 85.
So in this, Shri Mataji was talking first time about Vishwanenwala Dharma.
She said, oh, people ask me, is it a religion? Yes, of course, it's the religion,
it's the pure universal religion and to make it short, we can call it Vishwa Nirmala Dharma,
the pure religion, universal religion in the name of Nirmala.
So according to that, you will be called Nirmalites, like Christians according to Christ
are called Christians and you will be Nirmalites.
Applause and laughing and such an easy going atmosphere, especially because in that talk also she,
because marriages were on the way in the tour and some people were already quite tense about it maybe.
And she made up this story about husband and wife and the differences
and I think it wasn't that puja when she said, you know, man, they don't know anything
but you have to know how to handle the man and let's say the man wants to plant a coconut tree.
And you know that the climate and the garden is not made for this, so you don't object,
you don't confront the man with your opinion because you know better what you don't say,
but what you do is you plant the mango tree. When the mangoes come out, the man will say,
look, the coconut is getting mongrose. She was saying it in a very funny way,
it was so hilarious and so beautiful talking about the differences of man and woman,
which she did later on so often and which is I think so important in nowadays time
where everything, the modern world wants to deny all these differences to such an extent,
it's completely ridiculous. So I think one day in Cabela we should collect all her talks about
man and woman because it's really so meaningful, so interesting and such a,
to say, another aspect in modern life or an aspect of life which is missing today.
There was such a collection. I got married in 1990 and I was given the marriage book,
which I've lent sadly to somebody else so I no longer have it, but it had all these
Shamash's talks in there and how to handle the husbands.
How to handle the husbands, yes.
There's one famous talk also in Germany where Gregoire would say,
oh Shamash, is there any good point in being a man? And she said with a very funny gesture and smile,
there may be. And everybody was flat. Is there any point being a man?
Gregoire said. Well, whatever. But the story about this is not ending because in the end of that Krishna pooja,
as you could see in the video before, Shrimadaji was asking people to fix her on the bindi with open eyes
and not flickering the eyes and concentrating on her bindi like that.
So I was sitting 20 meters just straight towards Shrimadaji and I did it in the end of the pooja.
I fixed her completely. And then that point, I mean, she was really answering that look.
And sometimes we all feel Shrimadaji looked at us, looked at us during the pooja, but this was just,
she was just staring at me like I was staring on her bindi. And then I went to a state which was celestial,
not from this world and absolutely I could not bear it anymore after some time. It was for seconds maybe,
but it was so intensive I could not bear it and I closed my eyes. But it was so beautiful.
And then when we get out of that, that's when I come back to the picture of this Rajiv Gandhi.
I had this dick and was dressed as you could see and I was putting myself very serious next to the poster,
though I was not serious at all. Inside it was just, I mean, it was just beautiful, the state after the pooja.
So I did it deliberately, but I stood there like a statue and stood next to it and then immediately children came,
Rajiv, Rajiv, Rajiv, it was a big fun. So this is about, yeah, this is a special moment, it's not a miracle,
but it's a special moment where the depth was so intense and the fun and the joy was parallel to that.
And it's not a contradiction and I want, if people see these reports of us, of yogis from past who saw so many incidents of Shri Mataji talking,
personally, I want really new people also to know that Shri Mataji had this both sides, this very much down to earth side
and the complete diving into the deepest moments was always her aim, that she makes us worthy to be presented to the Almighty,
as customs at one time told it in Ganapati Puri, means to be not only thoughtless, but to have such an ananda, the real joy of the Spirit.
And that was there and it was really joy and worldly joy at the same time. So it really was fantastic.
Yeah, so what was the next picture? Did I send you?
Not some picture, but you said, you mentioned when we were talking before about an incident in Prague?
Oh, yeah, Prague. Prague was near to Munich, it was not so far, so we went to go to the program, the Shri Mataji gave the program there, public program.
So during these two days, some of us, I don't know who was with us, definitely the leaders at that time,
went with Shri Mataji to a dinner or lunch in one of these huge restaurants, you know, Prague is a place of,
what do you call it, Jugendstil, I don't know, this floral art of the beginning of last century is a lot like these windows.
The Muchada, is it Anuvo, I think it is?
Jugendstil?
Jugendstil, Art Deco, I think, whatever. Yeah, and they have a lot of decorations like this.
So one of these huge restaurants, we went and from the lower part there was a huge staircase going up in the upper room,
so you could look down like a gallery and we were sitting there actually with 12 of us,
6 on the one side, 6 on the other side and Shri Mataji on the top of the table.
So it was really feeling like the last supper you can say.
And when I tell you the story you can feel that it was like that,
like what Christ had with His disciples was not more than we had in that moment.
Because one moment Shri Mataji put her attention on a chandelier which was hanging from the gallery down in the staircase area
and how it was exactly, but there were mirrors from both the sides of this chandelier reflecting the chandelier in infinity.
You know all this, if you go to a lift with mirrors inside you can see yourself reflected in infinity.
And so this chandelier also was reflected in the mirrors like in infinity.
And then she said, you know, this is how the creation took place.
There was Shiva and Shakti on both sides and they put Ganesha in between and mirrored Him in infinity.
So the whole creation is like the infinite mirror of Ganesha which is the role model for us but for the whole creation so to say.
So and she was sitting like this in the end of the table putting her arm on the table, doing like this.
There's photos which I always wanted to have, I don't know who, I think Herbert Reininger in Austria had them.
She was doing like this and we all closed our eyes, she closed her eyes and we all closed her eyes
and it was again one of these magic moments with point and complete thoughtlessness.
And we felt the absolute truth in what she said. I mean this is always when she spoke this eternal truth that you just go into thoughtlessness
and there's no way of analyzing it, you just dive into the truth of it and that was one of these moments.
Yeah. After this I think there was a story which she recalled not only one time that she was flying to Vienna from there
and somehow she was not treated very well and some are from the customs I think and Wolfgang had to cry.
Wolfgang from Austria, Wolfgang Hucker and then rain was pouring down and she said, you know, with your tears,
maybe even the clouds open and so this is a little bi-story so to say. Yeah, that was it.
Did you want to tell, you mentioned a show when we were talking before. Is that some special significance to you?
Yeah, that's, I wanted to tell you a very short moment in my life which seems to be so maybe irrelevant,
you see what it was, but for me it was, for my emotions, for my left, it was a big thing.
We had gone to the Riga which is a hill station with a cable in Switzerland, also during the course of the pooja
and that was a miracle by itself because it was completely full, you couldn't see your hands on the way up.
When Szymonzio arrived on the top of the hill, in this hill station, pure sun, and then she said we come to have havan there
and we prepared on the side of it, of this area, we prepared the fire and she asked us to get some leaves to decorate the fireplace
but there was not many leaves, there was just grass in this area, but there was a bush on the slope which was going really deep down
but it was just one metre away from the edge so I just reached out to get these leaves and she was very close by,
maybe three metres or so and she said, take care Thomas. This was it, she took my name, she was caring and it was such a relief for my heart
because I mean, I don't want to talk about the feeling I had before, sometimes you don't feel you're up to the mark.
In the 80s there were some groups coming up in Switzerland and if you were a little bit feeling outside you feel bad or whatever, we are just childish
but with this she opened the whole cosmos of my heart and it was just a little story about that.
But the shawl, the shawl was when we had puja here in Kabela so there was the kitchen still downstairs in the, no it was also still on the bridge, yes.
The first pujas were on the bridge and once there was fires with iron plates directly on the wood fire and she might as well sit on the entrance of the, the upper entrance of the castle
and she was sitting on this big seat and so some ladies were there cooking, preparing, I don't know, biryani maybe or what and I was looking for the potatoes, I don't know
but in any way I was going forth and back and then the pots were brought to her to put something inside, you know like herbs or spices.
So also she was chewing something, maybe cardamon or what which had to be opened by her teeth and she took it and put it inside.
She said I hope you don't mind if I, because nobody minds but I mean she said like that and then, then I was sitting on this bench which was a stone bench on the entrance of the castle which you might know
where nowadays people always wait. So I was sitting just beside her and she was putting these things inside the pots and stirring and I was just, complete admiration of the situation of this fire and she might as well be there
and I said, it matters but it's just like a pooja. She said yes of course it's just the way how to look at it, how you look at it and this again is something so simple but so important if you think of it, if you nowadays sometimes face an over ritualistic attitude
or I would say a tendency, sorry to say it here but it's a good chance to say it here but Sahaja Yoga is not Hinduism and there is a certain tendency to, to, to put too much Hinduism inside yoga because
Yeah and to make things too elaborate I think there's a tendency to make things more elaborate than they need to be.
Yes and ritualistic and whatever you have to know exactly what the coconut is for and when to use this and when to use this and just it goes on my nerves sometimes I must say. I mean if I can, if it goes on my nerves normally nothing goes on my nerves so much but I can, I can say it's, I don't like that very much and you should be a little bit careful that you don't go into that ritualism.
But whatever. So why did you say that? Yeah that, that expresses.
So just in that moment she was just, Shimachi was just cooking but it was like a puja.
No, no, no that she was cooking, she was cooking.
Yeah but it was the same depth, same depth as a puja isn't it?
Yeah I said, Shimadaji it's just like a puja because this, you know, this tearing, putting something inside like a ritual, like something like you put kukum, you put this, and I said it's just like a puja and I really felt it like this.
And she said yes, it's just a question how you look at it. And this throws a light on this question how much you have to have real exact rituals to, to enhance the vibrations, to get the vibrations coming out or how much is it authentic feeling of your heart what you put inside the puja.
That's what I want to express. But one of the puja's, I was building, I was a fireplace man, later I became a salesman in the area of fireplaces and I knew how to build them also.
So I built a pizza oven down at the lower part of the kitchen in the castle and I was sitting with Hermann, an architect from Austria. After the puja I was sitting together with her, the two of us sitting before her.
She wanted to discuss something about the staircase in the reception room with the dining room in the castle, which was not there at that moment, but we both did not get it from the plans we had before us.
We could not understand and how she could know that this staircase nowadays is a complete normal thing and how she could see that, I mean, from the plans is just amazing.
Even an architect could not follow that. But then suddenly she said, Thomas, you got this pizza oven, I should give you something. Then talking again.
Then one moment she had herself covered with a shawl, which was, I mean, her body is not so big and the shawl covered her mostly.
And I was looking at her and she said, she's so beautiful, looks so new, I don't know how I expressed exactly. And she said, oh, you can have it.
I said, shouldn't I? I didn't want to say that. And then she took it off her and threw it on me two meters away.
I had no chance to then accepting it. So this holy peace, I keep it with me, of course. And that was also, of course, a big blessing, but also showing her easy way to make people happy.
And to learn from her, not only the generosity, but the need that another person has, the need for love and when to give it and how to give it to somebody.
And we really should try to copy her in that, in this special, I mean, as I said, it's not only generosity, of course it is, but it's more generosity of the heart to see the other person's need.
So it was really fantastic. Yeah, that's about the shawl, I just keep still keep it at home.
So you also sent me some photographs that you've taken around Kabela's. I'm just going to share the first one now.
See, these are really miraculous. And I still cannot believe it sometimes. This was just in Kazele here, Apukarvela, in the back of the store. I don't even know where it was exactly.
But as you can see, very clearly, there is a big elephant with an eye, and the small one behind. The one in the left side, you cannot see so clearly, but still you can see the trunk, you can see the part of the ear, you can see the eye. And you can see that?
Yes, yes, I can see it. Yeah.
It's just a root coming off before a piece of stone wall or so. But this is all over, and especially in the rocks in Kanta Gubo, the place before Kabela.
Sorry, Thomas, I'm just looking now again at this and really the eye, especially the eye of the second, of the smaller elephant is just full of compassion again, now it seems to me.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, if you see the eye, you can see the whole person, so to say. And so these rocks, which are before Kabela, after years, somebody said to her, Srimadaji, is it the Swayambhu, these rocks?
And she said, you found out this now, as if it was completely clear to everybody. But actually from Germany, when we came to the first puja here, when the castle was bought, we went by bus, I mean, 40 people or so.
That was the good old times when people really were collective. I hope sometimes these things will come back. Nowadays everybody comes with cars or planes. But we went with the bus and we came in the middle of the night, full moon.
Must have been a group of people. Full moon and the moon shining on these rocks. And they look like big claws of huge animals. It was amazing. Just this introduction into the valley was just amazing. And you can see a lot of elephant heads and Ganesha's there.
I think also, in a second, I just want to say that I always find that when we're coming through the valleys, that it looks like the folds of elephant skin to me as well. You have the elephant skin folds around. Dara just put a note that she said that of those two, the smaller one looks like the baby. And she says in Switzerland, there's a waterfall with the same mummy and baby.
Elephant.
So I'm going to share now this, the one that I have, the second picture. Maybe you can just tell us a little bit about that.
Ah, look. Before one pooja, about four years ago, I had a foot soak just before the pooja. And I looked in the river and before me it was like a heart shape. Just if you turn this around, it looked like a heart shape. I took the stone and turned it around and I was shocked.
I mean, what you see, can it be more clear? I put with a little bit oil dots where the eyes are there anyway. And the trunk on the left side, which is one trunk on the left side, was there anyway. But I made it a little bit more clear with some water or oil to show it better. But isn't it amazing?
It is amazing. I thought it must have been a sculpture or something when I was looking at it. I didn't realize it was just a stone you'd found.
It's just a stone. I keep it at home on my altar. And I don't know, it means something that you're given that. And actually we all should be more innocent, maybe like children. But this was just a spontaneous find.
But to show the next one, the next one is for me also the one in the...
Yeah, yeah. Oh no, I have a tree?
The tree is actually next to our place in Germany, but also quite interesting because...
Yeah, you will see.
Aha, there you see it. I didn't put the lines to make it more clear. Well, you can see, maybe you have a...
No, I don't have a pointer, I'm sorry.
If I move the cursor, you cannot see that.
No.
Actually in the middle of the...
Can you see my cursor?
Yeah, I can see.
Okay.
Yes, yes, I can see. Move it up a little bit. Up, up, up, up, left. No, no, not too much up.
There's a trunk. There's a teeth on the one side, on the left side.
A tusk.
Yeah, down there, under the cursor.
Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's the tusk and this is the trunk, obviously, no?
And the trunk, you can see, it goes down and it's further on, laying.
Oh, yes. Yeah. Wow.
And there's a deep one eye.
There's the eye.
Yes. And you have sort of...
Or is this the eye?
You have Shiva and Shakti, as Shimadali explained it, and they put Ganesha...
On either side of Ganesha.
Yeah, so the tree is going in. So that was quite near to our place at home.
So let me show you the next one. The next one is in Kabela also, but in Monjardino,
there's a hotel. There's a hotel where we often stayed before.
Yeah. And there's a little brook, a little river, which has hardly any water, but it's washed out
and you can see, sitting on the roots of the tree...
Under the roots of the tree is sitting the baby Ganesha.
And you will see it in the next picture where I've made the lines to make it even more clear.
Well, the next one is without the lines. It's just more closer, you'll see.
Do you have the one with the lines?
Well, I just show this one first. This is a closer up of it. So that people can maybe see it without the lines joining.
Yeah, you can see the trunk with your cursor and there's the one. Yeah.
So now I'll show it where you've joined it in.
Yeah.
And actually, this looks exactly how...
Yeah. The ear really, you can see on the photo before, the ear on the left side is very clearly distinct from the other stone.
The eyes is dark, the left eye you can see clearly, the right eye, I made it very little bit clear.
But this looks exactly how they show the Ashtavinaayaka, the baby elephants in Maharashtra.
They are also a little bit vague or a little bit abstract. They look like that, so to say.
And as he was sitting here under the roots of the tree that was so symbolic.
So, I mean, I don't know, I didn't look for all these, it just happened.
This is the most miraculous thing. I don't go around with the camera to look, oh, do I find something like this?
Yeah. Anything else? What is the time?
I have no more. It's five minutes to the hour.
Yeah.
I don't think I have any more questions for you.
Maybe somebody else wants to ask the question or what?
Thanks, Thomas. It's amazing. When you listen to these stories, you feel like all the deities are sitting here with us.
And there's this, you feel like Mother's here also with us. It's just, thanks so much.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I hope, of course, that I can convey a little bit the feelings I had in this time.
It shows people who come after us, who come after those people who met Shri Mataji in person,
that they can imagine a little bit the atmosphere and the moments that we shared with her.
And if, I mean, one time I was sitting in Kabela with two Germans whom I hardly knew, and we started to talk.
And everybody was like in competition to tell the stories. It was unbelievable.
And if I just see this moment where some people which I hardly knew told stories that you just cannot imagine,
then how much more we all can contribute to these kind of miraculous stories.
And not only miraculous, but also to throw a light on what it meant for our lives.
Because, you know, Shri Mataji was an expert in so many things that one time I wanted to write something about how much she was a specialist.
Be it in architecture, be it in psychology, be it in relations between husband and wife, be it in politics.
I mean, it's just amazing if you just, sorry to say, but just hear her talks.
Sometimes you cannot grasp the worldly personality also, how much knowledge she had, how much she could work through her complete intuition.
And that's why I said sometimes you don't have a feeling she had ever a right side to express something from her right side.
Everything came from the intuition and the inspiration. And this I have the feeling we should copy that.
Nowadays you sometimes feel so many opinions about things. May it be wars or may it be the virus or whatever it is.
I mean, people discuss, they come together, they discuss about their jobs or this. What's so interesting about it?
It's just like usual people, they come to a party, they discuss the negativity of the money in the state and the tax and whatever.
This is so irrelevant. I mean, I have the feeling we can be very much in this world, but not to be from this world.
I mean, like it is in the Bible said, in this world so we can know all these things. We should be informed, as you said, you should read the news,
know about everything in the world, but at the same time be very detached and don't make it an issue in your head, especially not in your vibrations.
But go to this watchful state of witnessing and from that changing the world, maybe if we can.
Because in this witness state we are in the deep concern without being involved into it.
And so we might change the world more than we know, I don't know, but it's worth trying not to judge or not to be involved, but to just witness.
But certainly, Shamasha can only work through us when we're detached, when we're in a witness state.
Yeah, that's very true. I once had a vision of what one could make a piece of art out of that or a picture that when she went away from us, she was going,
I had this idea, she is going around the world like a layer of a special aura around the world and she's everywhere there.
And whenever somebody goes in the witness state deeply, then this power of her flows like a, what do you call this, when you put juice in a bottle,
you use something like this, what you call that. It's a funnel. A funnel, yeah. So I was imagining to have a funnel and this blessing pouring in and the knowledge pouring into yourself.
It would be nice to make a picture like that once, a yogi sitting there and you see Shri Mataji's power flowing into him when he's going into this deep state of meditation.
Well, I shall remember that image now, Thomas, when I'm meditating, definitely.
Well, I'm not an artist, I cannot, but I could imagine it could be a nice picture.
Okay, that's it. Thank you so much for having me and yeah, I think many, many of us should write down their stories, also make this kind of interview or tell them stories.
Somebody's raised a hand, but please just open your mic and speak.
I just wanted to say that there is now a light that's from what I can see anyway, there's a light that's shining on the photograph behind you, Thomas.
There's a light shining there.
No, no, on the other side, Thomas, on the deities dancing, I think you mean, isn't it?
Yeah.
I don't know, I cannot see, I see my picture only in small, so I cannot really see what you mean, but in any case, here comes again the doubting Thomas.
And I put some lights in the room and of course they do give also from above some light, but whatever it is, I mean, actually, we don't need this outer light because we have it all inside.
Well, I can just say that my Saazara is beautifully open, so thank you very much for that.
I thank you so much. If this is the result, I'm very, very happy. Thank you so much. So we quit.
Yes, I'm just going to stop the recording.